Features of Sound 
First lets see Intensity & Power 

Power (Sound Power)
    Sound Power : Rate at which energy is transfered 
    Energy per unit time emitted by the sound source in all directions
    Measured in Watts (W)

Sound Intensity
    1. Sound Power per unit area
    2. Measured in (W/m^2)

Usually an orchestra has power of 1W (surprisingly so low)
This tells us about threshold of hearing (TOH) - 10^12 W/m^2
Threshold of pain (beyond which we statrt to get pain) - 10 W/m^2
its enormous what we can percieve

That is why we put intensity level on an enormous scale because the range is so vast. 
Measured in decibels 
Ratio between 2 intensity values 
    Intensity of this wave and 
    Intensity of Reference (usually - TOH is used as reference) 
    dB = 10.log(I/Itoh) 
    if I = Ttoh then dB = 0 

    Everytime we go up by 3dB intensity usually doubles

There is a table of Intensitie of various sounds we hear around us and other beyond range sounds. 


Loudness : 
    1. Subjective measure of sound intenisity 
        just like pitch is a subjective measure of freq this is sub measure of intensity
    2. Depends on duration (we hear shorter duration same intensity sounds as less loud than longer duration sounds) / freq of sound (same thing with freq) 
    3. Depends on age
    4. Measured in phons 
        a) Equal loudness contours plot (Different intensity sounds but percieved at same loudness)
        b) or maybe in some scenario we need more intensity to percieve at same level of loudness as before 
we just saw correlation between physical measures and perceptual measures. 



Timbre : 
    1. We don't have a fixed defintion but we have a concept. 
    2. Colour of sound 
    3. Difference between 2 sounds with same intensity, freq, duration
    4. Described with words like - Bright, Dark, Dull, Harsh, warm 
    5. It is MULTIDIMENSIONAL 
        It is a multifactorial sound dimension
    6. How to measure it ????
        a) Sound envelope
        b) Harmonic Content 
        c) Amplitude / freq modulation 


        Sound Envelope : 
            i) Sound usually has an envelope (it can be divided with ADSR model)
            ii) Attack - Decay - Sustain - Release Model (See a plot to understand this)
            iii) 
        
        Harmonic Content : 
            (to understand this we need to understand what a complex sound is made up of - multiple(Superposition) sinusoids(Simple sounds))
            (A partial is a sinusoid to describe a sound), (sinusoids that superimposed)
            (Lowest partial is called Fundamental Frequency)
            Harmonic Partial is a freq that's a multiple of fundamental Frequency
            basic Idea is complex sound is made up of all these partials and harmonic content is the energy we have in 
            each of these partials. This somehow determines timbre of sound. 

            Not all sounds are perferctly harmonic - Deviation from harmonic partial - Inharmonicity
            Violin - harmonic
            Percussion (drumd) - Inharmonic 

            In the ipynb files for this lecture we have different features for different instruments. 

            We have plotted spectrogram for these sounds. 
            In the violin plot we can see partials presence and how they are present at multiples of fundamental frequency

            Then we have sound of piano : We have harmoic content - partials etc... 
            The higher we go less presence of partials similar to violin but content is less here in piano. 
            Distribution of energy across different partials is what we get from this plot. Which is the point of Harmoinic content. 


        Freq Modulation 
            1) AKA Vibrato 
            2) Periodic variations in Frequency -  in music for expressive purposes 
            3) We have a message signal which is applied on the carrier signal and we get modulated signal. 
            See some plots related to this online

            What is Vibrato : 
                1) Alternating between 2 notes etc.. (watch a video for this maybe)

        Amplitude Modulation 
            1) AKA tremlo 
            2) Periodic Variation in amplitude - in music used for expressive purposes.
            3) we have message signal applied on carrier signal. (kind of like Burst and release of energy at regular intervals)

        when we modulate the sound we change the timbre not exactly the freq or amp but a quirk that changes teh time grip. 

    
