Sound 
    1. Produced by vibration of an object 
    2. Vibrations cause air molecules to oscillate
    3. Change in air pressure creates a Waves

    Mechanical Waves : 
    - Oscillation that travels throufh space 
    - Ennergy travels from one point to another 
    - The medium (air) is deformed
    - There are 2 stages in sound wave compression(more pressure, compressed air) and rarefaction(very less air pressure)

Waveform 
    1. Represent sound/audio 
    2. Like a pressure plot 
    3. carries information about - Intensity, Frequency, Timbre

Periodic and Aperiodic Sounds 
    1. Periodic
        - Simple compressions and rarefactions repeat regularly (like a sine wave)
        - Complex - orcheestra sounds (multiple sine waves superimposed - Fourier series)
    2. Aperiodic 
        - Continuous (Noise)
        - Transient (Pulse) - popping, click sounds etc. like a burst of Energy
    
    Simple Sine wave analysed : A.Sin(2pift + phi) 
    A - Amplitude 
    f - freq = 1/T
    phi - Phase (it enables us to shift the waveform and tells us position of waveform at t = 0)

Freq and Amplitude : 
    1. higher the frequency - higher the sound we percieve. 
    2. Larger amplitude - louder the sound we percieve 
        Since aplitude measures the amt of perturbation and larger the perturbation larger

Hearing Ranges for different animals. 
    Human - 20Hz to 20,000Hz
    Bats can hear ultrasounds and other animals are compared. 
    There is a plot of different sounds and in which range do they lie so what we hear lies in which range of freq

Pitch : (Subjective) ~ Perception of frequency
    1. Logarithmic Perception 
    2. We hear pitch in a logarithmic way and not linear way 
    3. 2 frequencies are percieved similarly if they differ by a power of 2. 

Midi Notes: 
    For transforming information about musical notes etc. 
    Octave : 
        An octave is the distance between two musical notes where one note has a frequency that is double 
        or half of the other. For example, if a note has a frequency of 440 Hz, the note one octave above it is 880 Hz, 
        and the note one octave below it is 220 Hz. On a piano, an octave is the distance between eight white keys. Notes that are separated by an octave have the same letter name

    Pitch Frequency Chart : Logarithmic Chart 
    Mapping pitch to frequency formula : F(p) = 2^((p-69)/12) * 440

    Relation between 2 subsequent pitches : F(p+1)/F(p) = 1.059 (Remains always the same)

Cents: 
    1. Octave divided in 1200 Cents
    2. 100 cents in a semitone 
    3. Noticeable pitch difference : 10-25 cents



Some extra points : 
Pitch and frequency are different in the following ways: 

1. Frequency is a physical quantity that measures how often a repeating event occurs per unit of time, while pitch is a perceptual quantity that describes how high or low a sound is heard. 
2. Frequency is measured in Hertz (Hz), which is equal to one occurrence per second. 
3. Pitch is what the listener perceives, and is detected by the ears. 
    Relationship between the 2 : 
        Higher frequencies are associated with higher pitches, and lower frequencies are associated with lower pitches. 
        Range
        The range of frequencies that audio equipment can reproduce is measured in Hertz, and typically ranges from 20 Hz to 20 kHz. The range of pitches that a singer or instrument can cover is specified in octaves. 
    Vibration
        Higher notes have faster vibrations, while lower notes have slower vibrations.
A frequency is how frequent sound waves pass a certain point in a second. Pitch is how high or low we hear a sound to be. If the frequency is higher, the pitch is higher , If the frequency is lower , the pitch is lower.