For this I also have presentation given in the lecture along with these notes. 

Understanding the audio/sound  and convert it into a digital signal which we can use to extract features from 

Sound is a mechanical/analog wave/signal. 

1.) Analog Signal 
    Continuous values over time and amplitude (Infinite resolution)
    But we can't store this infinite values. 

2) Digital Signal 
    Sequence of discrete values
    can only take finite number of values 

Analog to Digital conversion (ADC): 
    2 step process : 
    1) Sampling 
    2) Quantization

    Pulse Code Modulation - Audio digital signal

    Sampling : 
        1) Sampling Period  (tn = n.T), T - Time period 
        2) Sampling rate - 1/T (How many sample points we have for each second of our digital signal)
        
        Low Sample Rate, High Sampling Rate
            - Difference is the information loss 
            - which is high in low sampling rate
            - High sampling rate is proportional to low info loss. 

        So what SR should we use : Depends on the task as hand. 
        But there is some reasoning behind and threshold or theory for it 

        Nyquist Theorem gives Nyquist Frequency. Min SR should be 2xfN. 
            To avoid Aliasing we should keep SR above the Nyquist frequency. 
            Alisaing means - we loose the information (overlapping of freq domain curves) - all frequencies get aliased(gets moved to lower freq)
            (higher level freq are shifted)
            Audacity (open source software we can use to analyse sound signals)

    Quantization : 
        At each sample on x-axis we sample to the nearest level avail of quantization on y-axis. 
        Quantization error : The more values we have on y-axis(levels) the less quantization we will have


        Resolution of quntization is calclated in number of bits. (number of levels = 2^bit_depth )
        Bit Depth 

memory of 1 sound 
SR = 44,100Hz
Bit Depth = 16 bits

amt of memory required to store this sound (1 minute) : (16.44,100) --- number of bits/s  
to MB/s 
((16.44,100)/1048576/8). 60 ~ 5.49MB   (a lot of memory) - that is why we get lossy sounds because of low sampling rate/less bit depth


Dynamic Range : 
    Difference between largest/smallest signal a system can record. 
    (loudness range from a digital standpoint)

    Higher the resolution higher the dyunamic range


SNR ratio 
    Max signal strength to quantization error
    correlates with dynamic strenght
    SQNR ~ 6.02.Q      (Q - bit depth)
    16 bit depth - SQNR ~ 96dB


How do we record sound : 
    1. Meachanical wave hits the microphone 
    2. Starts vibrating/oscillating - creates analog electrical signal 
    3. ADC (Sampling, Quantization, Anti-Aliasing filters(LPF))
    4. We have a digital signal and we store it in our system 


DAC : 
    1. converts the digital signal back and gives us sound/analog signal back
    2. the electrical signal hits the membranes and hits our ears. 